# From bulk to single-cell and spatial data: An AI  framework to characterise breast cancer metabolic disruptions across modalities

This repository contains the code and data to reproduce the results presented in the paper “From bulk to single-cell and spatial data: An AI framework to characterise breast cancer metabolic disruptions across modalities"

The framework integrates machine learning with patient-specific metabolic modelling to predict risk for breast cancer patients. The repository contains 3 main folders:
<li> Data preprocessing: providing the preprocessing code, including feature selection techniques for transcriptomic and fluxomic data; </li>
<li> Metabolic modelling: providing the Matlab code for GSMM to generate patient-specific flux rates (fluxomic data);</li>
<li> ML models: providing the Jupyter notebook with the code to run the machine learning (ML) models. The code is reproducible with different number of selected omic features; hence, we provide the ML results for the optimal selected omic features for each data modality and their combinations.</li>
<li> An end-to-end tutorial in a Google Colab notebook allowing users to easily analyse clinical and transcriptomic data and investigate significant alternations both at the single-cell and spatial levels. </li>

        
The data used in this study can be downloaded at TCGA website: https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/. We provide all data used in this study, including raw and preprocessed clinical, raw transcriptomic, and fluxomic data generated by metabolic model (https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Data/22337722).

## How to run
The following steps are required to run the code:
<li> Python 3.9.x and R version 4.2.x are required, a check on the specification for the used packages (requirement.txt) is required before running the code. </li>
<li> Jupyter notebook server is required. </li>
<li> Ensure all pip dependencies are installed as listed in requirements.txt. </li>
<li> Run through the steps laid out in the notebook in the order of folders (starting with the preprocessing folder, metabolic modelling, to ML models). </li>

## License

This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Public License for more details.

Le Minh Thao Doan - Nov 2024
